+++
title = "Out of 2025, Into 2026"
date = "2025-12-31"
author = "siphc"
tags = ["personal"]
description = "There are quite a few."
+++

## Purpose
I want to try something else this year and publish all my goals and aspirations for 2026 so that I may view them at a glance.

The goals below are divided into three categories: Goals Spirtual, which address abstract personal matters, Goals Temporal, which address other personal matters that are possible to concretely measure, and Goals Material, which address career-wise matters (you will hopefully hear about them on this blog!).

There is also a number to each bullet point's right. They add up to 100. At the end of next year I will look back on each of these items and assign myself a grade; if this system ends up working well, I will try to continue the tradition into 2027.

---

## Accountability
Unless otherwise stated, the threshold for "passing" any daily tasks at the end of the year is set at 300 days, obtained by defining the entire month of January as a free pass, and the rest of the year with a 90% success rate ($(365-31)*0.9 = 300.6$), rounded down.

For tracking... let's use a [spreadsheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1aWmXe561mAuSY4UjyN15kOLZoU-0oMXUNrq5L1EBgQg/edit?usp=sharing). There are four of such items, and four accompanied two-letter codes that I have created for them. I will figure some counting system out at the end of the year.

---

## OK, So What Are They?
### Goals Spirtual {{<ralign "(20)">}}
- Continue to not regularly use any social media platform {{<ralign "(8)">}}
- Be a more honest, humble, down-to-earth version of myself {{<ralign "(8)">}}
- Be more well-spoken, avoid internet slang {{<ralign "(4)">}}

### Goals Temporal {{<ralign "(44)">}}
- Read for at least 15 minutes daily {{<ralign "(RE: 8)">}}
- Reduce (mobile) screen time to <=2 hours daily {{<ralign "(ST: 10)">}}
- No screen time after midnight, and wake up no later than 8:30am {{<ralign "(BE: 8)">}}
- Jog/Bike for at least 20 minutes in >= 200 days {{<ralign "(EX: 8)">}}
- Release my debut EP {{<ralign "(6)">}}
- Publish something interesting at least once a month on this blog {{<ralign "(4)">}}

### Goals Material {{<ralign "(36)">}}
- Co-author my second paper {{<ralign "(8)">}}
- Write my first interpreter {{<ralign "(8)">}}
- Self-host my first SSH server {{<ralign "(4)">}}
- Finish reading [What Every Programmer Should Know About Memory](https://people.freebsd.org/~lstewart/articles/cpumemory.pdf) {{<ralign "(6)">}}
- Finish reading [Software Architecture with C++, 2e](https://www.packtpub.com/en-us/product/software-architecture-with-c-9781803235059) {{<ralign "(5)">}}
- Read [Linux From Scratch](https://www.linuxfromscratch.org/lfs/) {{<ralign "(5)">}}